.TH chuse 1 "2015-04-11" "version 1.0" "https://github.com/apinsard/chuse"
.SH NAME
chuse - Portage USE flags manager

.SH SYNOPSIS
chuse \fIatom\fR [[\fImodifier\fR]\fIflag\fR ...] [--because \fIreason\fR]
.PP
    Alter USE flags.
.PP
chuse \fIatom\fR
.PP
    Show USE flags
.PP
chuse (-h|--help)
.PP
chuse (-v|--version)
.PP
chuse --dump
.PP
chuse --load \fIfile\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
Chuse stands for CHange USE. This is a Portage tool for managing your
local USE flags (ie. set within /etc/portage/package.use).

.PP
In constrast to several equivalents, it is designed with a very specific
goal: Make your \fI/etc/portage/package.use\fR easier. This means chuse does
not handle other \fIpackage.*\fR and focuses on \fIpackage.use\fR.

.SH OPTIONS

\fIatom\fR:
    [\fIversion-selector\fR]\fIebuild-cat\fR/\fIebuil-pkg\fR[-\fIversion\fR][:\fIslot\fR]
    Obviously, \fIversion-selector\fR and \fIversion\fR should never be set without the other.
.PP
\fIversion-selector\fR:
    One of: =, >, <, >=, <=.
.PP
\fIebuild-cat\fR:
    An ebuild category (validity won't be checked)
.PP
\fIebuild-pkg\fR:
    An ebuild package (validity won't be checked)
.PP
\fIversion\fR:
    A version of the underlying package (validity won't be checked).
.PP
\fIslot\fR:
    A slot of the underlying package (validity won't be checked).
.PP
\fImodifier\fR:
    One of: +, -, %. (% means reset default). If omitted, + is assumed.
.PP
\fIflag\fR:
    A USE flag (validity won't be checked).
.PP
\fIreason\fR:
    The reason why you changed these US flags (so that you remember why you set this and if you can
    reset default in the future for instance.
.PP
\fB--dump\fR
    Print all contents of /etc/portage/package.use.
.PP
\fB-h --help\fR
    Print help.
.PP
\fB--load\fR \fIfile\fR
    Load a backup file to the /etc/portage/package.use hierarchy.
.PP
\fB-v --version\fR
    Print version information.

.SH EXAMPLES
By default, chuse uses the following hierarchy pattern:
.PP
    /etc/portage/package.use/\fIcat-name\fR/\fIpkg-name
.PP
That is, one directory per package category, one file per package.
.PP
If you don't use this hierarchy pattern and want to adopt it:
.PP
    chuse --dump > /root/package.use.bak # Concat all your rules in one file
.PP
    chuse --load /root/package.use.bak # Export the backup to the new hierarchy
.PP
If you want to setup your own hierarchy pattern, you can change the pattern by explicitely setting
the PACKAGE_USE_FILE_PATTERN environment variable (eg. in your bashrc).
.PP
    PACKAGE_USE_FILE_PATTERN="/etc/portage/package.use" # All in one file
.PP
    PACKAGE_USE_FILE_PATTERN="/etc/portage/package.use/%(cat)s" # One file per category
.PP
    PACKAGE_USE_FILE_PATTERN="/etc/portage/package.use/%(cat)s/%(pkg)s" # This is the default
.PP
    PACKAGE_USE_FILE_PATTERN="/etc/portage/package.use/chuse" # One file dedicated to chuse
.PP
Show the flags you altered for firefox:
.PP
    chuse www-client/firefox
.PP
Add system-cairo, remove system-icu and reset system-jpeg for firefox 37.0.1:
.PP
    chuse "=www-client/firefox-37.0.1" system-cairo -system-icu %system-jpeg

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs on github https://github.com/apinsard/chuse/issues

.SH AUTHOR
Antoine Pinsard <antoine.pinsard@gmail.com>

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBportage\fR(5)
